Docs: Add prefetching guide (#80152)
vercel/next.js: docs/01-app/02-guides/prefetching.mdx

```tsx
'use client'

import Link from 'next/link'
import { useState } from 'react'

function HoverPrefetchLink({
  href,
  children,
}: {
  href: string
  children: React.ReactNode
}) {
  const [active, setActive] = useState(false)

  return (
    <Link
      href={href}
      prefetch={active ? null : false}
      onMouseEnter={() => setActive(true)}
    >
      {children}
    </Link>
  )
}
```

`prefetch={null}` restores default (static) prefetching once the user shows intent.

## Ejected link

> **Proceed with caution:** Extending `Link` opts you into maintaining prefetching, cache invalidation, and accessibility concerns. Proceed only if defaults are insufficient.

```tsx
'use client'

import { useRouter } from 'next/navigation'
import { useEffect } from 'react'

function ManualPrefetchLink({
  href,
  children,
}: {
  href: string
  children: React.ReactNode
}) {
  const router = useRouter()

  useEffect(() => {
    let cancelled = false
    const poll = () => {
      if (!cancelled) router.prefetch(href, { onInvalidate: poll })
    }
    poll()
    return () => {
      cancelled = true
    }
  }, [href, router])

>   return <a href={href}>{children}</a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<a
  href={href}
  onClick={(event) => {
    event.preventDefault()
    router.push(href)
  }}
>
  {children}
</a>

```

}
```

`onInvalidate` is invoked when Next.js suspects cached data is stale, allowing you to refresh the prefetch.

> > **Good to know:** Using an `a` tag will cause a full page navigation to the destination route, you can use `onClick` to prevent...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Good to know:** Using an `a` tag will cause a full page navigation to the destination route, you can use `onClick` to prevent the full page navigation, and then invoke `router.push` to navigate to the destination. 
```

1. Links in the viewport
2. Links showing user intent (hover or touch)
3. Newer links replace older ones
4. Links scrolled off-screen are discarded

The scheduler prioritizes likely navigations while minimizing unused downloads.

### Partial Prerendering (PPR)

With PPR is enabled, a page is divided into a static shell and a streamed dynamic section:

- The shell, which can be prefetched, streams immediately
- Dynamic data streams when ready
- Data invalidations (`revalidateTag`, `revalidatePath`) silently refresh associated prefetches

### Router cache

Prefetched React Server Component payloads are stored in memory and keyed by route segments. Navigating between sibling routes—e.g. `/dashboard/settings` → `/dashboard/analytics`—reuses parent payloads and fetches only the changed leaf.

## Troubleshooting

### Triggering unwanted side-effects during prefetching

- Server Actions and Client Components

### Preventing too many prefetches

- What is the problem with prefetching too much? Unnecessary server load. Especially for routes users might never visit.
- Hover-trigger the prefetch or use manual prefetching

> ### Disabling prefetching on hover
> 
> - How do you disable prefetch on hover? https://github.com/vercel/next.js/discussions/24437
> - Use your own Ejected Link component

Reviewer: Historically, this was a problem in pages router, because disabling prefetch, kept the on-hover behavior. 

In this case, the root issue was "too many prefetches", that lead people to opt-into prefetch false, but, perhaps unexpectedly, still kept the on-hover issue.

In App Router, prefetch false, disables on-hover too. So that problem is solved. However, we have the opposite problem, so to speak. People who did want to disable prefetching on the viewport, but still prefetch on hover.

The proposal up above, to do a `Hover-triggered prefetch` ~ does cover the use case, so I think we can drops this third section altogether.

```suggestion
```

To avoid this, you should move side-effects to a `useEffect` hook or a Server Action triggered from a Client Component.

**Before**:

```tsx filename="app/dashboard/layout.tsx" switcher
import { trackPageView } from '@/lib/analytics'

export default function Layout({ children }: { children: React.ReactNode }) {
  // This runs during prefetch
  trackPageView()

  return <div>{children}</div>
}
```

```jsx filename="app/dashboard/layout.js" switcher
import { trackPageView } from '@/lib/analytics'

export default function Layout({ children }) {
  // This runs during prefetch
  trackPageView()

  return <div>{children}</div>
}
```

**After**:

```tsx filename="app/ui/analytics-tracker.tsx" switcher
'use client'

import { useEffect } from 'react'
import { trackPageView } from '@/lib/analytics'

export function AnalyticsTracker() {
  useEffect(() => {
    trackPageView()
  }, [])

  return null
}
```

```jsx filename="app/dashboard/page.js" switcher
'use client'

import { useEffect } from 'react'
import { trackPageView } from '@/lib/analytics'

export function AnalyticsTracker() {
  useEffect(() => {
    trackPageView()
  }, [])

  return null
}

> ```

Author: TS and JS blocks.

Next.js automatically splits your application into smaller JavaScript chunks based on routes. Instead of loading all the code upfront like traditional SPAs, only the code needed for the current route is loaded. This reduces the initial load time while other parts of the app are loaded in the background. By the time you click the link, the resources for the new route have already been loaded into the browser cache.

When navigating to the new page, there's no full page reload or browser loading spinner. Instead, Next.js performs a [client-side transition](/docs/app/getting-started/linking-and-navigating#client-side-transitions), making the page navigation feel instant.

## Prefetching static vs. dynamic routes

|                                                                      | **Static page** | **Dynamic page**                             |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- | -------------------------------------------- |

> | **Prefetched**                                                       | Full Route      | Skipped or shared layouts and loading states |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Prefetched**                                                       | Yes, full route      | No, unless `loading` state |
```

Maybe this would make it easier to scan

> | [**Client Cache TTL**](/docs/app/deep-dive/caching#full-route-cache) | 5 min (default) | Off unless enabled                           |

Reviewer 2: Linkify "enabled"?

Author: Yes, sounds good.

> | **Server roundtrip on click**                                        | No              | Yes (streamed after shell)                   |

Reviewer 2: For streamed after shell, link to "Partial Prerendering (PPR)" below in this file?

> > **Good to know:** During the initial navigation, the browser fetches the HTML, RSC Payload, and JS Bundle. For subsequent navigations, the browser will fetch the RSC Payload for Server Components and JS bundle for Client Components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Good to know:** During the initial navigation, the browser fetches the HTML, JavaScript, and React Server Components (RSC) Payload. For subsequent navigations, the browser will fetch the RSC Payload for Server Components and JS bundle for Client Components.
```

## Automatic prefetch

```tsx
import Link from 'next/link'

> ;<Link href="/about">About</Link>

Reviewer 2: Prettier will throw in the ; here if there's no component, let's just do the most minimal smol one

```

| **Context**       | **Prefetched payload**           | **Cache TTL**      |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| No `loading.js`   | Entire page                      | Until app reload   |

> | With `loading.js` | Layout to first loading boundary | 30s (configurable) |

Reviewer 2: Linkify configurable?

Automatic prefetching runs only in production. Disable with `prefetch={false}` or use the wrapper in [Disabled Prefetch](#disabled-prefetch).

## Manual prefetch

```tsx
'use client'

import { useRouter } from 'next/navigation'

const router = useRouter()
router.prefetch('/pricing')
```

Call `router.prefetch()` to warm routes outside the viewport or in response to analytics, hover, scroll, etc.

## Hover-triggered prefetch

> **Proceed with caution:** Extending `Link` opts you into maintaining prefetching, cache invalidation, and accessibility concerns. Proceed only if defaults are insufficient.

> Next.js tries to do the right prefetching by default but power users can tweak the knobs to do more or less prefetching based on their needs. You have the control between performance and resource consumption.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next.js tries to do the right prefetching by default, but power users can eject and modify based on their needs. You have the control between performance and resource consumption.
```
